---
layout: post
---
Fiction of the Year - The Fountainhead, Ayn Rand (4/5)  
  
When my sister told me it was the most "formative" book of her high school career, I was skeptical. Turns out it was a similar experience for me, the scripture driving my summer transformation.  
  
Texts to my sister on the novel:  
- Characters were all right, I liked how each was a different aspect of individualism, I found Gail Wynand the most relateable. I liked how self-aware toohey was but he was very single-faceted at the end, i appreciated how Roark maintains immutable throughout the book, I didn't understand Dominique at all lol. I thought her philosophy had merit but like I said she could've presented it more subtle  
  
- Her philosophy being rands philosophy  
  
- Liked it a lot, I thought she could've been more subtle abt the individualism thing, esp at the the end where the speeches kinda read like a textbook. But overall I appreciated that the book had integrity, like I felt like every passage had a use and never felt like I was wasting my time reading  
  
- Lol yeah I mean I don't need a megalomaniac giving a 5-page speech about his plans for world domination to understand collectivism is bad  
  
- Also I was constantly amazed at her way to express interactions in ways you wouldn't consider. Like when keating asks toohey if he'd heard of Roark and rand notes that toohey emphasizes that he hadn't, which he wouldn't do unless he had. Stuff like that  
  
- It was when toohey was telling Peter how he was gonna take over wynand papers and brainwash peeps, and it killed me bc the chapter after is like a 7 page speech from Roark about how individualism is good  
  
  
Non-fiction of the Year - Salt, Sugar, Fat: How the Food Giants Hooked Us, Michael Moss (4.5/5)  
  
Probably not the first thing you'd think a hiker would be reading on the JMT, but this book was incredibly informative and an awesome piece of investigative journalism in general. Despite being unapologetically biased, Moss presents the data in an even tone, through meaningful statistics and probing interviews. And it wasn't just on the health effects of processed food; I never thought the politics behind the food industry could be interesting, but this book proves me wrong. The whole "You'll never look at food the same way ever again!" glossing the cover isn't wrong.  
  
  
Honorable Mentions  
The Sympathizer: A Novel, Viet Thanh Nguyen (4.5/5)  
  
Other books that were so mediocre if I don't list them I'll forget them:  
American Gods, Neil Gaiman (3.5/5)  
Focus: The Hidden Driver of Excellence, Daniel Goleman (3/5)  
All the Light We Cannot See, Anthony Doerr (2/5)  
Kafka on the Shore, Haruki Murakami (3/5)  
Born to Run: A Hidden Tribe, Superatheletes, and the Greatest Race the World has Never Seen, Christopher McDougall (1.5/5)  
How to Win Friends and Influence People, Dale Carnegie (3/5)  
  
I've already forgotten the rest of them
