---
layout: post
---
Recently I got into making granola. Much like my infamous bread days, the granola probably isn't as good as the kind you get from the store and Im not sure if it's that much cheaper. But I really enjoy the iterative, almost scientific, method of hypothesizing, making, and eating. After a couple iterations, I finally got a recipe I've tweaked from online ones that results in the crunchy clusters I love.  
    
Andrew's Granola Base:  
2 cups oats - I find the smaller cuts of oats in minute cohere better than old-fashioned 
3/4 cup nuts (I use almonds)  
1/4 cup oil  
1/4 cup maple syrup or honey  
pinch of salt  
   
Now here's where it gets interesting. The above ingredients will make granola, but from here you add more to take it so many ways. A couple examples:  
  
Cookie Granola:  
1/8 cup chocolate chips  
1/4 cup coconut flakes, sweetened or not  
1 tsp ground cinnamon  
1 tsp vanilla extract  
  
Or, Orange Chocolate Granola:  
Zest of 1 clementine  
1/8 cup chocolate chips  
1 tsp vanilla extract  
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon  
1/2 tsp nutmeg  
  
Regardless of the ingredients, you'll want to do the following:
1. Mix ingredients together  
2. Bake at 300F for 20 min, spread out on pan. No need to pack down  
3. Take out and mix so it cooks evenly. Here I'll put in things I don't want melted/burnt, like chocolate chips or coconut flakes. Then, pack everything together. This will help form clumps.  
4. Bake at 250F for 60 min more. I think cooking it this long lends to crunchier clusters.  
5. Let cool for at least an hour before using hard spatula to scrap off bottom. The granola will naturally break off in clusters.  

